Outer class :public or default
Inner class :public,private,protected,default
Public :can be access by other packages
Private:can not be accessed by other classes
Protected:can not be accessed by other packages but can be by child of other packages
Default:can not be accessed by other packages
Only one outer class can be public in a java file.

Instance Variable:when object of class is created, it will be there.

we can not create static variable in a function.but can have static inner class.

Static:Static variable is not present in object of class.It is variable of class not of its object.
Classname.staticvariablename=3;
Static member function can not access instance variable.
Classname.staticfunctionname();
A class can be declared static, indicating that it contains only static members. It is not possible to create instances of a static class using the new keyword.

We can make object of other class in current class.

Constructer is a member function of class.It has no return type.Its name is same as of Class.It is called automatically when its object is created.We can create more than one constructer in a class.

A class can have only one parent class and can have multiple child classes.
Private members of superclass can not be accessed by subclass.

Instance initialization block will be starting of code of constructor. It has no return type or name.
Static Instance initialization block can not access instance variables.

Function Overloading: Different no. of arguments
Whether both in child,both in parent,one in child another in parent
Name of function should be same.Returntype need not to be same.

Function OverRiding:Same no. of arguments,Name of function should be same.
                    one in child another in parent. Child function is given preference over parent when object of child is created.

If both function are static then it is hiding not overriding.
If parent class function is static, then function with same name in child class should be static.

Static variables do not inherit, but can be hided.

Constructer of parent runs before constructer of child.


Abstract class: Its object can not be created.We can make subclasses of its.
Abstractclassname objectname=new Childclassname();
Abstract class can have constructor. 

Abstract Methods: Created in abstract class.It has no coding. We end it with semicolon.

Normal class can not inherit Abstract class with abstract method.For this you have to override abstract method of parent class.You have to write method in child class again.

Interface:Its object can not be created.In this, function has no coding.Its methods are abstract,non-static and public  by default.
Its variables are final,public and static by default.
Interface has no constructor.

Interface/Class can have more than 1 parent interfaces.
Interfacename objectname=new Childclassname();

